[Izzy] And now for the
Digimon Encyclopedia.
Greymon!
This Digimon evolves from Agumon
and has an armor-like
skin covering his head
giving him that ready
for combat look!
Now, let's check this out!
It looks like something amazing
is going to happen to this
powered-up Greymon today.
Let's wait and see!
Which Digimon will
it be next time?
(theme music begins)
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in deep
♪ Trying to take the leap
♪ Believe you can fly
♪ Become the wind
♪ Soar beyond the unknown
(theme music continues)
♪ Can't hold back
this lightning speed ♪
♪ Trust your heart
will take the lead ♪
♪ Never turning back and
never letting fate decide ♪
♪ Skies ahead may not be blue
♪ That don't mean we
can't break through ♪
♪ Leave your cares behind
♪ We'll never know
until we try ♪
♪ So what can we say
♪ We'll blaze our own way
♪ We'll make it up
♪ We're cranking
up the altitude ♪
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in
deep, gonna take the leap ♪
♪ Sail into the sky
♪ Over the horizon,
adventure waits ♪
♪ It's calling you
♪ Don't dare think twice
♪ Just take the dive
♪ Yeah, become the wind
♪ And soar beyond the unknown
♪ Chasing the
light of tomorrow ♪
♪ Illuminate a new,
and glorious world ♪
[Narrator[ Ogremon challenged
Greymon to a rematch
to regain his lost pride.
However,
their fierce battle
came to an abrupt end
when a mysterious
Digimon appeared
destroying everything
in its path.
This newfound
enemy was a Digimon
that surpassed the Champion
Stage: an Ultimate Digimon!
(roars)
Its destructive power
engulfed the children
in flames of despair.
(lightning sparks)
(embers crackle)
(birds chirping)
[Joe] Get outta
here! Everybody, run!
Oh gee! I'm afraid I have
to say this is no time
to be filming, Izzy!
[Tai] Ogremon no!
Sora, please look after Agumon!
[Matt] I hate to admit it,
but we have to retreat.
(roars)
[Gomamon] You're
gonna be fine, Agumon.
The longer you rest down here,
the faster you'll recover,
(Izzy gasps)
[Izzy] This is it!
Ultimate Digimon,
Metal Tyranomon.
Where did you find
this info, Izzy?
I was able to recover the data
that was left behind
back at the fortress.
[Joe] When did you
have time to do that?
[Izzy] But most of
the data is corrupted
so it's difficult to analyze.
[Sora] So, all you
figured out was its name?
[Joe] Well, now we
know from experience
that Ultimate Digimon are big,
scary, and extremely strong!
Celestial Digimon, lies ahead.
Go straight, child.
[Matt] You do realize
that retreating
was the best option
we had at the time.
None of us stood a chance
against a Digimon like that.
And if we die, everything
will end. Game over.
I just wish we had
gotten more information
out of Ogremon while
we had the chance.
That's not what that
fight was about.
It was what Ogremon
said, a fight for pride.
That's why Ogremon
challenged us to battle.
That's all it was about, not
about friends or enemies.
We had our own reason,
and Ogremon had his.
(Mimi whimpers)
Why has everything
gotten to stressful?
This is tense.
Should I stop 'em?
(whimpers)
Please?
(gasps)
[Matt] Did you ever consider
that Ogremon's words
could be a trap?
If you saw the
look in his eyes,
you would know that
he wasn't lying.
[Matt] Making friends
with adversary?
Talk about being naive.
You keep that up and
you won't survive.
No. I'm gonna see
this mission through!
I'll save the Celestial
Digimon and I'll save our city!
(groans)
Hello, Tai!
(laughs)
Agumon!
Nice to see you, too!
I'm glad you're okay!
(stomach growls)
(all chuckle)
(chuckles)
Biyomon and the
others should be back
with food for ya soon!
What about Ogremon?
I just wanted to
finish our battle.
I know.
I did, too.
(Agumon cries)
[All] We're back, everyone!
[Agumon] Look at all the
yummy snacks you guys got!
(enthusiastic chuckle)
[Palmon] There's
enough for everyone!
[Gomamon] I'm just happy
you all made it back safely.
[Tentomon] It was pretty tough!
There were Soundbirdmon flying
all over the place out there.
Well then, it's only
a matter of time
before they find all of us here.
(roars)
[Matt] What are
you thinking, Tai?
If you're trying to fight
them without a plan,
I can't go along with you.
Remember,
our primary goal is to
rescue the Celestial Digimon.
Yeah, I know all of that.
But we're running
out of time here
and the enemy is
bound to find us
if we just sit around and wait.
Which means the
only way out of here
is through Metal Tyranomon.
Unfortunately, he's right.
If Soundbirdmon sees us,
they'll alert Metal Tyranomon.
[Tentomon] You'll
never believe it!
Come quick!
Izzy made a huge discovery
about the Celestial Digimon
and how to find them!
(Digivice beeps)
See? What did I tell ya?
What is this?
I found it while going through
the data. Check it out.
This is a map of where we
are on the Cloud Continent.
I'm sending it to all
of your Digivices now.
(Digivices beeping)
And also, I figured out
a couple more things.
I may have answers to
some of your questions.
For starters, here's the
seaside fortress where we're at.
From the looks of it,
there seems to
have been frequent
communication taking place
between the fortress
and another location.
The words Tai read earlier
were also found in
their communication log.
Meaning there's a
strong possibility
that one of these
points could be--
The enemy's headquarters.
Where the Celestial
Digimon is now.
Precisely.
Which means we
should head toward
one of these marked
locations next.
But there's another piece of
evidence that narrows it down.
This is the direction that
Ogremon pointed us toward.
And if we overlap it
with the map like this.
So that's what he meant.
Go straight ahead.
This means...
Ogremon gave us
the exact location
of the enemy headquarters.
Yup! Looks like
Ogremon's a hero.
But you're the one
who figured it out!
(all laugh)
Thank you, Izzy!
All right then,
it seems like we can
trust his information.
This time at least.
(chuckles)
Ready?
You betcha!
Oh, and Tai.
-Yeah?
-Check this out.
(Digivice beeps)
(roars)
(both pant)
(mid-tempo action music)
Pepper Breath!
(Soundbirdmon beeps)
[Tai] This is Tai, the
diversion plan is working.
Now's your chance to
make a run for it.
Once Agumon and I shake them
off, we'll catch up with you.
You think this is far enough?
Mm-hmm!
Thanks, Matt. I owe you one.
(wings flapping)
Ready?
Oh, yeah!
(upscale action music)
Agumon digivolve to...
(singing in Japanese)
Greymon!
(energy whirs)
Let's give it to 'em!
Yeah!
(explosion)
Nova Blast!
We've got to get in closer!
Got it!
(Metal Tyranomon roars)
It's you and me this time.
And I'm not gonna lose!
(both gasp)
(both grunt)
(roars)
(foliage rustles)
(bubbling)
(squelches)
(eerie music)
[Matt] How are we
supposed to cross this?
So much for just
going straight ahead.
(whimpers)
Not only does it look
eerie, it feels evil.
Yeah, very evil.
(both whimper)
We're supposed to
go through that?
I don't think so!
Not gonna happen!
Yuck! I'm not going
through that either!
(ominous music)
What is this dark mist? Or
should it be called a miasma?
Oh, look!
It's the same thing
Metal Tyranomon emitted!
Do you remember?
You think that means he
walked through this stuff?
I bet they go this
way all the time.
This is their main route.
(computer blaring)
Huh? What's this?
Yeah, on second thought
maybe we shouldn't get
too close to that stuff.
(all shudder)
I have an idea!
Let's find something
to throw inside of it,
and see what happens.
Well, if you say so!
(book splashes)
(all shudder)
I know I swam across the sea,
but this might be more
than I can handle.
Hey! Was that my exam prep book?
[Gabumon] It seems Ogremon's
information was correct.
But this dark miasma
is far too dangerous
for us to get across.
Man, what a bummer.
(miasma hissing)
(energy whirs)
(lightning sparks)
[Izzy] Take a look
at the battle data
I analyzed for Metal Tyranomon.
When Metal Tyranomon switches
from lasers to missiles,
there's a small opening
for a counterattack.
Maybe you can somehow
take advantage of that.
It's the only weakness
of his I've found so far.
(tense music)
That's it!
Now's our chance!
I'm on it!
Nova Blast
(grunts)
(energy whirs)
(groans)
Huh?
(energy whirs)
(missiles explode)
[All] Huh?
What's going on?
(rumbling in the distance)
(upscale action music)
Almost, just a little closer!
There it is!
I see it! We'll
get him this time!
(grunts)
(both grunt)
We can't give up yet.
I promise you that
we won't lose.
(Digivice beeps)
(growls)
Huh?!
(energy whirs)
(yelps)
(both scream)
(missile roars)
[Palmon] What's that?
[Mimi] It looks
like something fell!
That's Tai and Greymon!
(ground rumbling)
And Metal Tyranomon!
(all cough)
(upscale dramatic music)
(Digivice beeps)
(both shout)
(growls)
(grunts)
We're not about to lose
after coming this far.
We'll never back down
and we'll never give up!
(beeps)
(upscale action music)
Greymon...
digivolve to...
Metal Greymon!
(singing in Japanese)
(gasps)
Greymon was able
to digivolve again.
Now he's an ultimate Digimon.
[Matt] That's impossible.
Trident Arm!
(energy whirs)
Let it rip.
Giga Storm!
(roars)
(all gasp)
(pants)
We did it, Tai. We beat him.
Of course we did, and it was
all thanks to you, Agumon,
I really hope Ogremon was
watching us back there.
Yeah!
[Matt] While Ogremon's
information was correct,
our problem is still that mist.
[Gabumon] Yet Metal Tyranomon
was fine falling into it.
Must be that those who
possess the dark miasma
are able to survive in
this kind of environment.
I guess that means this
is as far as we can go.
We'll just make a detour, right?
[Izzy] Even if we wanted to...
There's not enough
information available
to tell which way we need to go.
Then how about this? We split
up into two separate teams.
Looks like we have
no other choice.
Matt, what do you think?
Sounds like a plan.
But hat do we do
if both paths wind up leading
to a dead end or something?
We can't afford
to consider that,
given our current circumstances.
Besides, if something
wipes out one of our teams
the other one might
still survive.
Huh!?
What do you mean if
something wipes us out?!
[Gomamon] You know,
something could be anything.
(Joe whimpers)
[Tentomon] So, how do we
decide who's on each team?
[Biyomon] I didn't
even think about that.
[Mimi] How about we draw names?
Joe, let me borrow that
notebook of yours real quick
so I can make them!
[Joe] Hold on! You better
not throw this one away too!
♪ We're falling rapidly
♪ Are we gonna lose it all?
♪ What is it you're
waiting for? ♪
♪ The headwind's signaling
♪ That we better
give this our all ♪
♪ Believe and push forward
♪ Is this the strength
we've been looking for? ♪
♪ Is this the reason we need
to kick down the door? ♪
♪ Is the seed of failure
sprouting into wings? ♪
♪ Does the past
decide the future? ♪
♪ So if you hope
to see a rainbow ♪
♪ You need to open
up your eyes ♪
♪ Take a helping
hand and understand ♪
♪ That it's time you realize
♪ If you wanna make
your dreams reality, ♪
♪ It may not be easy
♪ Just take a breath
and take a chance ♪
♪ Next thing you know,
♪ You're a shining
beacon in the sky ♪
[Narrator] At the same time
Matt risks his life to
save Sora and the others,
a miraculous digivolve occurs!
[Tai] Next time,
"The Wolf Standing
Atop the Desert"
[Narrator] The adventure
continues to a new world.